## cl-bittorrent
This is a BitTorrent client written in Common Lisp.

```lisp
(bittorrent:download-torrent "/path/to/file.torrent" "/download/dir/")
```

### Setup
Clone the repo in your quicklisp local-projects/ directory, or add a symbolic link pointing to wherever you cloned it.

Then:

```lisp
(ql:quickload 'bittorrent)
```

### Testing
Unit tests:

```lisp
(ql:quickload 'bittorrent-test)
(in-package bittorrent-test)
(run! 'bittorrent) ; runs all fiveam tests
```

Integration tests in the `scripts/` folder:

* `handshake-test.lisp` is used to test the handshake / message-sending between two peer threads. Run in Emacs with `slime-eval-buffer`.
* `tracker.lisp` is used to construct and save a dummy tracker response. Set `*peer*` if you want a peer listed in the response, run `(save-tracker-response)` to save the response at the appropriate path.
* `tracker.py` runs a dummy tracker server that returns the response generated by `tracker.lisp`.
* `run-client` runs a fresh instance of the client with no existing data, accepts as arguments the path to the torrent file and the path to the download directory. Run from the command-line.

To test 1 client with no peers: (1) start the dummy tracker, (2) run a client from the REPL using `download-torrent`.

To test 2 clients talking to each other:

0. Save tracker response to /tmp/ with `scripts/tracker.lisp`: just load the file and run `(save-tracker-response)`.
1. Start the dummy tracker (`python3 scripts/tracker.py`).
2. Run a client from the command-line (with `./scripts/run-client --torrent data/test.torrent --dir /tmp/`).
3. Add that client's info (port and ID, from the logs) to the tracker: `(set-peer! PORT-NUMBER "ID")`, then `(save-tracker-response)` again. Note that the client's ID is URL-encoded and you will want to decode it using `(quri:url-decode "STRING-HERE" :encoding :latin1)`.
4. Run a client from the REPL using `download-torrent`, this time include a bit vector as an extra argument indicating which pieces it has downloaded (in the test I'm doing, one client has all the data and the other has none). Example invocation: `(download-torrent "/path/to/cl-bittorrent/data/test.torrent" "/path/to/cl-bittorrent/data/" :start-piecemap (make-array 3 :element-type 'bit :initial-element 1) :debug-p t :log-level :debug :log-path "/tmp/c2-log.txt")`.

### Missing features / wishlist
* Pausing and resuming of downloads.
* Ability to pick which files to download.
* Downloading multiple torrents at a time.
* More generally, consideration of how it could be used as a library / embedded in other applications. As it stands, there are no configuration options or hooks.
* Resilience to errors: dropped connections, failed file writes, unresponsive tracker, etc.
* Smarter selection of pieces for download (e.g. rarest first).
* More faithful implementation of the choking algorithm from the spec (see design.md). Generally, more consideration of how choking/interest are handled (e.g. if a peer becomes interested, do we immediately unchoke it or do we always wait until the 10-second period has elapsed?).
* UDP communication with trackers -- currently uses the old HTTP protocol, which most trackers don't accept anymore.
* Let the tracker know when we've finished / are shutting down.
* Handle case where client is in tracker's list of peers, i.e. don't try communicating with self.
* Better tracking of upload/download rate for peers. Right now, peers could be sending us vast amounts of junk data, and we would consider them "good uploaders" & keep them unchoked. There's also no feedback from the worker threads to say that data was successfully sent to a peer.
* A lot of data is being passed around as plists, which fail silently if there's a missing field or the wrong name is used to access a field. I don't like how fragile that is. Need to either replace the `getf`s with something that fails fast, or replace the plists with objects.
* Peer thread should close socket on exit.

### References
* <http://www.kristenwidman.com/blog/how-to-write-a-bittorrent-client-part-1/>
* <http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html>
* <https://wiki.theory.org/BitTorrentSpecification>
* <http://bittorrent.org/bittorrentecon.pdf>